President Obama:
Hi, everybody.
This Father's Day weekend, I'd
like to spend a couple minutes
talking about what's
sometimes my hardest,
but always my most rewarding
job -- being a dad.
I grew up without
my father around.
He left when I
was two years old,
and even though my sister and
I were lucky enough to have a
wonderful mom and caring
grandparents to raise us,
I felt his absence.
And I wonder what my life would
have been like had he been a
greater presence.
That's why I try pretty hard to
be a good dad for my own kids.
I haven't always
succeeded, of course --
and in the past, my job's kept
me away from home more than I
often would've liked, and the
burden of raising two young
girls sometimes would fall
too heavily on Michelle.
But between my own
experiences growing up,
and my ongoing efforts to
be the best father I can be,
I've learned a couple of things
about what our children need
most from their parents.
First and foremost,
they need our time.
And more important than the
quantity of hours we spend with
them is the quality
of those hours.
Maybe it's just asking
about their day,
or talking a walk together, but
the smallest moments can have
the biggest impact.
They also need structure,
including learning the values of
self-discipline and
responsibility.
Malia and Sasha may live in
the White House these days,
but Michelle and I still
make sure they finish their
homework, do their
chores, and walk the dog.
And above all, children need
our unconditional love --
whether they succeed
or make mistakes;
when life is easy and
when life is tough.
And life is tough for a
lot of Americans today.
More and more kids grow up
without a father figure.
Others miss a father who's away
serving his country in uniform.
And even for those dads who are
present in their children's
lives, the recession
has taken a harsh toll.
If you're out of a job or
struggling to pay the bills,
doing whatever it takes to keep
the kids healthy and happy and
safe can understandably take
precedence over everything else.
That's why my administration has
offered men who want to be good
fathers a little extra support.
We've boosted community and
faith-based groups focused on
fatherhood, partnered
with businesses to offer
opportunities for fathers to
spend time with their kids at a
bowling alley or a ballpark, and
worked with military chaplains
to help deployed dads
connect with their children.
We're doing this because we all
have a stake in forging stronger
bonds between fathers
and their children.
And you can find out more about
some of what we're doing at
Fatherhood.gov.
But we also know that every
father has a personal
responsibility to do
right by our kids as well.
All of us can encourage our
children to turn off the video
games and pick up a book.
All of us can pack a
healthy lunch for our son,
or go outside and play
ball with our daughter.
And all of us can teach our
children the difference between
right and wrong, and show them
through our own example the
value in treating one another
as we wish to be treated.
Our kids are pretty smart.
They understand that life
won't always be perfect,
that sometimes, the
road gets rough,
that even great parents
don't get everything right.
But more than anything, they
just want us to be a part
of their lives.
So recently, I took on a second
job: assistant coach for Sasha's
basketball team.
On Sundays, we'd get the
team together to practice,
and a couple of times,
I'd help coach the games.
And it was great fun -- even
if Sasha rolled her eyes
occasionally when her dad voiced
his displeasure with the refs.
But I was so proud watching
her run up and down the court,
seeing her learn and
improve and gain confidence.
And I was hopeful that
in the years to come,
she'd look back on experiences
like these as the ones that
helped define her as a person
-- and as a parent herself.
In the end, that's what being
a parent is all about --
those precious moments with our
children that fill us with pride
and excitement for their future;
the chances we have to set an
example or offer
a piece of advice;
the opportunities to just
be there and show them that
we love them.
That's something worth
remembering this Father's Day,
and every day.
Thanks, and Happy Father's Day
to all of the dads out there.
Have a great weekend.